[Born to Be Alive]
[Episode 40]
Because you know
this type of oil...
isn't used on hinges.
And the smell of gun oil...
is hard to mask.
Yes.
No matter how deeply you hide things,
you can't hide them forever—
like Wang Fumin's death
and the gun in Wu Jiang's car.
Give me a way out.
When you aimed your gun
at someone else,
did you ever consider
raising the muzzle just one inch—
to give them a way out?
Are you alright?
Get out of there!
Chun...
Chun! Chun!
Chun!
Press down on your wound.
Out of the way!
[Xinhai Coal Mine]
They went off-road.
Send the location to them.
Pick it up now!
Step on it, Captain!
We're losing them!
Stop yelling!
The chassis is too low—
any faster and we'll flip!
Captain!
Get ready.
Fan, get down!
Bai Ju, take cover!
Fan!
Gun!
Is this Emergency Services?
This is
the Criminal Investigation Detachment.
We need an ambulance 30 kilometers west
of Xinhai Coal Mine.
We have two people with gunshot wounds.
Did you kill Wang Fumin?
Yes.
Were you
connected to
Captain Duojie's disappearance?
Yes.
Where is he?
Would you still
believe me at this point?
I wanted to believe you.
Tell me,
where is he?
I don't know.
I didn't...
I didn't kill Duojie.
Stop looking at him. Shoot!
Kill him!
I don't want to owe anyone any favors.
Whether you make it out alive
depends on your luck.
On my way back,
I found
Duojie's car parked on the road.
To avoid being discovered,
I dragged Duojie's car
deep into the wilderness
and burned it.
Did you see
who took him away?
No.
I was too far away.
But...
I remember
the last digits of the plate—
5 and 8.
So...
So this is
how it all ends.
Maybe
the worst ending...
is actually the best one.
Tonight...
I can finally
get a good night's sleep.
All these years,
I've done
many dirty deeds for Feng Keqing,
including the incident
at Qima'er Gold Mine.
The person who's been shielding
Feng Keqing all these years
is someone you'd never expect.
But you'll find out soon enough.
That's
all I can tell you.
I've already told you everything
about my family's
violations of laws and regulations.
Violating discipline...
was indeed a momentary lapse of judgment
on my part.
I failed to
discipline and supervise my family.
Now, I am...
willing to accept punishment.
Mr. Lin Peisheng,
today we're not here
about your family.
It's about something else.
The police
need to question you.
According to forensics,
a large amount of blood
was detected
in the gap
under the passenger seat of that Santana.
Our investigation found
that the vehicle
was once registered under Feng Keqing,
then transferred to Lin Jianshe,
and then sold to a used car lot.
But when the car was sold,
Lin Jianshe had already gone abroad.
Do you have anything to explain?
It was me.
I sold it in Lin Jianshe's name.
As for the blood...
He was shot at the time.
I never knew...
a human body...
could bleed so much.
Back then,
Feng Keqing told me
he was going to kill Duojie.
I hurriedly took Lin Jianshe's car
and rushed toward the airport,
hoping to run into Duojie
and stop all this.
But...
I was still too late.
Duojie?
Duojie!
Lin...
Let's go.
He was badly injured.
I just wanted to get him back
to the county town as quickly as possible.
Duo.
Duo, hang in there!
I'm taking you
to Director Zhang right now!
I'm afraid even the real Dakini
couldn't save me now.
Don't talk nonsense!
I know...
who wants me dead.
You saw...
who shot you?
As soon as I got off the plane,
a man named
Feng Keqing
stopped me.
County Mayor Duo!
Hello, County Mayor Duo.
I'm Feng Keqing.
I'd like to talk to you
about developing Bolamula.
There's nothing to talk about.
County Mayor Duo,
please take a look at this.
He said...
he knew the county officials well.
Do you know him?
I've seen him.
Runs a restaurant, I think.
He's not that simple.
He said Qima'er Gold Mine
was his...
and that Li Yongqiang worked for him.
He also showed me
a mining permit
for Bolamula.
[Qinghai Provincial
Land Administration Bureau Document]
It has the seals of
the Provincial Land Administration Bureau
and the County Government.
How did he get
those official seals?
Duo?
Duo!
I conspired with my junior at university,
Huang,
to secretly stamp the Provincial
Land Administration Bureau's seal.
Regarding the County Government's seal,
I stamped it myself.
Even though I did all those things,
I still
wanted to get Duojie
to the hospital.
But I didn't expect
my car to break down on the way.
Duo... Duo, hang in there!
I'll go fix the car!
I'll push the car!
I'll go find help!
Don't bother.
In my condition,
I won't make it to the county town.
I know
you were the one who stamped
the seals.
Clear water flows east...
muddy water flows west.
Even if they come
from the same spring...
they won't flow together.
Since we met
and started working together,
it's been 20 years, right?
To be honest...
I couldn't stand you at first.
You're younger than I am by...
by...
Three years.
Everyone else thought
that, as a college graduate, you were
calm and measured in your approach.
At the time, I was the only
one who thought, "This young man
is pretentious
and ambitious."
No wonder...
you didn't
talk much to me at first.
I thought
you were just bad at Mandarin.
Later...
we argued a lot.
That's when I realized
you spoke Mandarin very well.
We did fight a lot.
But I know...
you are a good man
and a good official.
When herdsmen couldn't bear to sell
their yaks and sheep,
you said that
what we were taking from the grassland...
had exceeded its...
its...
Exceeded its carrying capacity.
Anything beyond that is destruction
and waste.
So I know
your ambition
was never driven by self-interest...
but was for the herdsmen,
for the grassland—
not for yourself.
I...
I always thought
we were two rivers
taking different paths
but flowing toward the same sea.
Eventually, we would merge.
No.
You don't like the smell.
Dad?
Dad.
Dad,
where are we going?
To the grasslands.
Home.
After Duojie died,
I found
I couldn't explain
how I knew he would get shot.
I was scared
that my dealings with Feng Keqing
would be exposed.
So I decided to take his body
and bury it in the wilderness.
These days,
I often think that
if Duojie were still alive,
he would definitely argue with me.
But every argument
would've been a kind of correction.
After he was gone...
I made one mistake after another,
until...
there was
no turning back.
Those are all excuses.
A person with true conviction...
doesn't rely on
someone supporting
or correcting them...
but on the direction...
of their own heart.
Environmental protection and development
have never been opposites.
It seems
you never truly understood that.
[Tianduo Intermediate People's Court
sentenced Feng Keqing and Meng Yaohui to]
death for multiple crimes, including
murder, bribery, illegal hunting]
[and trade of nationally protected
endangered wildlife, illegal purchase,]
[transport, and sale of
endangered wildlife products, illegal]
[and destructive mining, and leading a
mafia-style organization. They were also]
[deprived of political rights for life
and had all personal property confiscated]
[Lin Peisheng, former vice mayor
of Tianduo City, was sentenced]
[to life imprisonment for multiple crimes,
including aiding the destruction]
of evidence, bribery, abuse of power,
dereliction of duty,]
[shielding a mafia-style organization,
and environmental pollution. He was also]
[deprived of political rights for life
and had all personal property confiscated]
[The remaining 36 members
of the mafia-style organization led]
[by Feng Keqing and Meng Yaohui were
sentenced to prison terms ranging from]
[6 months to 15 years,
depending on their roles as core members,]
active participants,
or general participants.]
[The Xinhai Group's illegal mining
operations have been completely shut down]
[Wang Jinmei, former mayor of Tianduo,
was sentenced to 15 years in prison]
[for bribery and holding unexplained
large assets, fined 1 million RMB,]
[and all her illegal gains
were confiscated.]
[Huang Shuo, former chief of
the Tianduo City Coal Bureau,]
[was sentenced to 18 years in prison
for bribery and abuse of power,]
[fined 2 million RMB, and all his
illegal gains were confiscated.]
[The head of Mingjia Chemical Factory,
who deliberately caused a chemical spill]
[to mislead the inspection team
and delay operations,]
[was sentenced to 3 years in prison
for environmental pollution]
and as an accessory
to abuse of power and fined.]
[Changqing Ecological Technology Company's
grass seeds passed inspection.]
[The company may continue operations
and take part in the regreening project.]
[The People's Government
of Qinghai Province]
[posthumously recognized
Yixi Duojie as a martyr.]
Look.
I'm driving.
Just take a quick look.
Look.
What do you think?
A real family portrait.
Dad, let me see.
Let me see.
Mom,
you were so beautiful back then.
Shao?
Wake up, Shao.
Mom,
are we there yet?
Let your dad see
if he still recognizes this place.
We're here.
We've arrived.
Finally.
Dad,
Mom,
I'll go over there first.
Okay.
Be safe.
Be careful.
-Go on.
-Go.
On the plateau in western China,
there is a magical land.
The Yangtze River,
the Yellow River,
and the Lancang River
all begin their journey here—
embracing hundreds of rivers,
nourishing all living things.
Here lies the world's
highest-altitude
national park and the largest in China,
home to the richest
diversity of wildlife.
It is a paradise for wildlife
and an irreplaceable
ecological barrier for the Earth.
Here,
humans and nature live in harmony.
People protect the source of
the three rivers—
the "Water Tower of China"—
as carefully as they protect
their own eyes.
They treat the ecological environment
as they would their own lives,
together composing
a magnificent hymn to life.
This is a land heroes
guarded with their lives—
and my eternal home.
[We dedicate this film with utmost respect
to all environmental pioneers]